# An Efficient Steganographic Approach To Secure Text Transmission Using S-Box
This is a proposed encryption and decryption process:
## Encryption Side
`Step 1:`  Enter Plaintext.

`Step 2:` Convert plaintext into ASCII (Decimal), and then into binary.

`Step 3:` Substitute bits from S-Box.

`Step 4:` Substituted bits XOR with key generated by Diffe Hellman Key Exchange.

`Step 5:` Choose cover image.

`Step 6:` Cipher text will be substituted in cover image by using LSB substitution.

`Step 7:` AND operation will be performed with the LSB bits of cover image.

`Step 8:` Stego image obtained.



## Decryption Side
`Step 1:` Obtained Stego image and following steps will be performed.

`Step 2:` Cipher text is extracted by using LSB.

`Step 3:` AND operation will be performed on extracted bits.

`Step 4:` extracted bits will be XOR with the key.

`Step 5:` Bits will be substituted from S-box and decimal values obtained.

`Step 6:` Decimal values converted into Plaintext.

`Step 7:` Message or plaintext obtained.

### S-Box

| Bits | 0 | 1 | 2  | 3 |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |
| 0 | 1  | 0  | 13 | 8  |
| 1 | 9  | 2  | 7  | 12 |
| 2 | 11 | 6  | 3  | 10 |
| 3 | 5  | 14 | 15 | 4  |

###  Working of proposed Algorithm
- Message  = J
-	Decimal value = 74 
- Converted in binary 74`(01001010)`
-	Divide binary in  2 subsets of 4 bits
`0100`     `1010`

-	Now the decimal value of `01` is `1` `00` is `0` `10` is `2`. Now substite the decimal values

|`0100`|`1010`|
|------|------|
|`10`|`22`|

- Now we will substite the values from S-Box , `10=0` and  `22=3` we will see from right to left  in s box. So, `0` and `3`.Now again convert into binary `0000`  `0011`.
-	Xor WITH key. Key is randomnly generated by diffehellman key exchange

  `0000` `0011`             performing xor operation

  `0110` `1100`  

  `0110` `1111`
  
  Now user select the image 

  We substitute the message in image by using LSB 
  
  |`Image bits(LSB)`|`LSB`|
  |-----------------|-----|  
  |0|0|
  |1|1|
  |1|1|
  |0|0|
  |1|1|
  |1|1|
  |1|1|
  |1|1|

  "`Ciphertxt 0110 1111`"

##### Decryption is reverse of encryption.

### Evaluation Measure
- PSNR `(Peak signal to noise ratio )`
- Encryption time
- Decryption Time

### Video Explain

### Authors

* **Usama Naveed** -https://github.com/usamanaveed900)
* **Instagram** -https://www.instagram.com/naveedusama/
* **Youtube** -https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCB3IljOaBGkrmbuBzC8ziBQ

See also the list of [Projects] (https://github.com/usamanaveed900?tab=repositories) I have woked on.



